Now that we have that little code ready,
actually,
we're not going to use grid anymore,
we can keep it there.
It's not going to be part of our app,
we're going to start start building
our coffee masters application.
So if you're following along
the companion website,
we will start with chapter three,
creating the offers section.
First, we will need some assets,
mostly images that we
are going to use now.
They are not so many, probably three
images only, okay, that we need.
These are actually part of the assets
that you can download from this website.
So, how assets work in Flutter.
Where should I put my assets?
So if I go back to Xcode, [INAUDIBLE]
sorry, if I go back to Visual Studio code,
I don't have like an assets folder or
an image folder.
Well, actually, I can create one.
You can create folders
here without any problem,
not in the live, in the root, right?
So be careful with that.
Live is for our data files only,
so such as images.
But how does the Flutter framework know
that we have added that folder and
we are expecting Flutter to include
the assets in that folder for our users?
We need to set up that in the YAML
configuration file pubspec.yaml, okay?
So if you go to pubspec.yaml,
we need to scroll a little bit and
there is a place here that says,
to add assets to your
application, add an asset
section like this.
And it's give you an example here
that you can comment if you want.
It's not a big deal, you can just,
it's assets column and
then a new line with several
declarations with a dash.
You can add images one by one or
the whole folder and you are saying here,
hey, when you compile the app, I want
to put all the files that I have here
in the images folder in whatever
container you're using.
It can be the Android application, the AUS
application, the executable Windows or
it can be the output folder for the web.
Okay, makes sense?
So, now what I need when
you save the pubspec.yaml,
it will run a tool that checks if
there are changes in dependencies and
blah blah blah, but in this case,
nothing has changed actually.
So, now that I have the images folder,
I have declare my images in the assets,
I need to put the images, okay?
So, if you go to the zip folder,
that I share with you,
I have here this, there is a folder
there with the name assets.
So what we need is to put all
these files in the images folder
that we have just created.
But before doing that,
I wanna explain to you what are those
folders that we have there.
So, this is going to be our logo, so let
me show you the logo, you can see it, so
that's the logo.
So, the thing is that today on
the mobile space and also on desktop,
but mainly on the mobile space, we have
devices with different resolutions, okay?
So it's pretty common to have a low
resolution ,middle resolution ,high
resolution device.
So, that means that we
cannot use the same PNG.
I mean, if you're a web designer or
web developer,
you know the same problem exists there,
that's why you have SR set,
so SR set for example,
or the picture element.
So you need to provide several bitmaps.
Flutter lets you define several
versions of the same file for
different resolutions if
you're using these folders,
2.0x, 3.0x, 4.0x and
then files with the same name.
Actually what you will do on different
platforms, we'll use different techniques.
It will pick the right one for
the particular device based
on the device resolution, so
actually the 4.0x file is bigger,
In pixels, okay?
So we have more resolution for
high resolution Android devices.
Okay, make sense?
So when you are creating assets for
Flutter,
you need to use PNG most of the time and
you need to provide all these versions.
If you don't provide one version,
it will pick the closest one
to the one that is needed.
Okay, make sense?
So after saying that, then I'm
going to take all these assets and
then I'm going to arrange them,
put them within images, okay?
Like so.
So, now we can actually
use what we have here.
So, you should open a images and
you should see something like this, okay?
Make sense?
Yeah.
>> That background and
black coffee PNG is not gonna be used at
all if you have the 2x,
3x ,4x already there?
>> Lemme see if I get it, so the black
coffee is not in the 4x ,3x and 2x, right?
That is what you mean?
So the background, we have the same file
with the same name on different folders.
It's the same file but
in different resolutions.
For the black coffee,
I didn't create different resolutions,
we will take just the same one because
it's just a dummy image that we will use
in a minute ,it's that one.
And because we don't want to
actually make different versions,
that's not worth the time, so
that what I want to emphasize with that is
that you actually don't need to have
all the files in the subfolders.
On each situation you will check,
do you have alternative versions are not?
And if you have them it will use it,
if not it will just use
the only version that you have.
Okay?
>> And what are the sizes of them because
I see, I look there I can't know?
>> The size, it's your size, so
there are no standard sizes.
So it's up to you.
It's up to the design that you're making.
The only thing is that,
the one that says 2x multiplies by two
does the original size by three by four.
Okay, make sense?
>> Is there a resolution
that maps to the 2x?
>> Unfortunately,
that's a good question, so typically,
designer tools prepare for
doing this for iOS native development.
They have the same problem but
they solve this in a different way and
they have tools to export Android PNGs
that are also similar but different.
So the main graphic solutions out
there that are Adobe Photoshop or
Illustrator or XD,
experience designer or sketch.
All these tools for
doing mobile app design they don't
have a Flutter export system.
There are a couple of online
tools that you can use, I mean,
you upload the asset and it will return
you a zip file with all these subfolders,
but not from the from the region and
tools, okay, unfortunately.
They prepare for native development but
not for Flutter, for some reason, but
you can do a plugin, I guess.
>> So we just make the 2x 3x and
4x folders and then make the files,
how do we know which device is
gonna use which one or do we not?
You don't need to care actually, so I can
tell you because it depends on the device.
So actually, for example,
on the iPhone side you have here,
you have today, devices on 2x,
devices on 3x, for
example the Pro and
the pro Max will actually take the 3x.
The iPhone, the iPhone 13, the mini,
the SE will take you the 2x.
iPhone will never take 4 this as of today,
as of shooting this video, so
we don't have the issues
with 4x resolution.
On the Android side,
it depends on the device.
The cheaper the device,
the lower the resolution.
So Galaxy s22 will use 4 and
so on, but actually,
you don't need to care too much about
that, so this is managed by platform.
Because in terms of pixels on your screen,
they are the same.
You are just changing the resolution, so
how many pixels do you
have within your pixel?
The same happens on the web today,
by the way, if you're doing a website,
unless you're using SVG,
if you want a high resolution logo,
you need to provide several versions
of your PNG file or JPEG files.
We do that with SRC set in the IMG tag,
for example, okay?
Cool.
Well, now that we have those images,
we are ready to start creating our app or
at least to make it look like our app,
okay?
So first, if we go to up,
I'm still on main.dart, so for
a while we are keeping
ourselves in in mind.dark.
So, if I scroll a little bit,
we have my app that has a title and
also my homepage has a title, so
we need to start changing this.
So instead of Flutter demo,
we're going to use coffee masters.
The title of the material app is actually
being used in the operating system.
So when you see for example, all the open
windows in the operating system, IOS,
Android or desktop,
that's the title that you will see.
And the title that you see here
it's actually going to be used for
the visible screen, okay,
does it make sense?
What is this title actually?
My homepage does not exist
in the Flutter framework,
it's just in a class
that was created here and
it has a property final, so
it's an immutable variable, okay?
It's a final string title,
it's an immutable variable and
it's receiving that title
as a name argument.
Actually, I'm going to delete it because
this is part of the template, but
I don't think I need it, so
I'm going to delete it from here.
I'm going to delete the reference
in the constructor and
also the property, okay?
So now I'm getting an error here
at some point because it's okay,
we don't have a title.
Well anyway, because here what they
want is actually to put the image,
okay, the logo.
I wanna see the logo instead of a text.
How to render an image.
Well, it's not a text, so I don't need the
text with it, I will use an image with it.
The image with it has actually
a constructor with a lot of possibilities,
but it also has name constructor,
remember name constructor?
I select dot and then they can
create an image, from an asset,
from a file, from memory or from network.
I remember someone asked if we
are forced to use the from prefix,
it's not being used here.
So I can create an image widget from
an asset and I just need to put.
The path suggests emushes/logo.png.
Okay?
If I save this, let's see,
let's rearrange my Windows a little bit.
Like so, I have Chrome here somewhere,
the other Chrome, that one,
it says unable to load assets, so
we are seeing an error there, okay?
So what's going on?
Every time you change assets, so
anytime you change things that are not
actually part of the lib folder,
you need to make a full reload.
So you need to like stop and run again,
because it's not taking the changes
on those external folders.
So if I'm changing the asset, okay,
it's not going to take it, okay?
Doesn't make sense and
by the way, I'm here.
If you follow here at the bottom,
at some point you have,
I think it's in the previous example,
you have how to add the image anyway.
So, now I'm going to run this again.
Wait for it,
remember when you see one Chrome instance,
that's your browsing
navigation context and
not actually the one that we
are waiting for, it takes some seconds.
Okay, there we are.
It's slowing, I'm going to open
the inspector has to turn on the device
mode so I can see a smaller window so
it fits there on the screen.
So, you can see that my logo is there,
so it's working.
Maybe it's not the right background color.
So, how to change the background color.
By default is that blue, that has to
do with a material, material theme.
Material design,
we are using that design and
it has something known as primary swatch.
These currently on blue.
So of course maybe you're thinking,
well, we can add any color here.
Yeah, we could add any color but
material design wants
us to use one of the colors
from the system, okay?
I mean we can create our
own swatch of colors but
I wanna show you that it's
actually pretty pretty good.
If I go here to the companion website,
I think I will move to the next lesson.
I think it's here.
Here you how how to create an image.
You have two links here, the material
color website and the material palette.
The first one is official and
the other one is from the community.
This is all the colors that are actually
provided with the material design or
the swatches and they are optimized for
better contrast automatically,
so we don't need to deal with contrast.
But for example, when we put one
of those in the background for
the foreground it picks
one that actually works.
So when you said blue it's not
just one blue or the blue,
it's actually going to use one of
these subversions automatically.
So, yeah and
here you can pick one of those and
see how your app will look
like with that one, okay?
And because we are talking about coffee,
we're going to use brown as
our main color swatch, okay?
So that's the one on won,
I just gonna come here and
change color blue with color brown and
now it looks better.
Again, do you wanna create your
own color swatches, you can, okay?
But, the advantage of using material
design is that it was already prepared
by professional designers and they,
unless you really have your own
colors from your own company,
it's a good idea to stay with safe colors.
>> Can you repeat that again about how
that automatically chooses to color?
You said something about automatic.
>> So, if you look here, I'm not saying
primary color, I'm saying primary swatch.
So what is that?
Every color has a swatch.
Swatch means, it has that same
brown color in different shades.
That it's actually what we see here,
it's the same color in different shades.
Now when we define the swatch,
the material theme,
the material designer will actually
pick the right color on each place.
So, here we have examples
on how it will look like.
So if you see here,
it's using one brown at the top and
the header, another kinda brown here,
another here.
So, based on the widget that you're
using and the behavior of that widget,
it will use different
swatches automatically.
Okay?
So you then you select the swatch and then
the framework will do its work for you, so
it will look like this, okay?
So you don't need to go element
by element and setting the color.